### Features ###
Batch Processing: Allows annotation of multiple genome inputs simultaneously.

### Steps ###
1. Create the main directory

```mkdir XYZ```

2. Create subdirectories for input and output

```mkdir XYZ/input XYZ/output```

3. Place your genome files inside the input directory

```cp path/to/genomes/*.fasta XYZ/input/```

4. Clone this repository to your local machine

```git clone https://github.com/BioinfoRhythm/Prokka-Genome-annotation.git```

5. Copy only prokka.py from the cloned repo into your current directory
cp Prokka-Genome-annotation/prokka.py ./

6. (Optional) Remove the cloned folder if you don’t need the rest
rm -rf Prokka-Genome-annotation

### Input Subdirectory ###
The input directory is used to store genome files (.fasta or .fna) that will be annotated. Place all bacterial genome sequences here before running Prokka.

### Output subdirecroty ###
The output directory is automatically populated with the annotation results generated by Prokka. For each genome analyzed, Prokka creates a set of standardized files, including:

.gbk – GenBank format with annotated features

.gff – General Feature Format for genome annotations

.faa – Predicted protein sequences (amino acids)

.ffn – Nucleotide sequences of predicted coding regions

.fna – Input genome sequence (possibly reformatted)

.sqn – Sequin file for NCBI submission

.log – Log of the Prokka run

This directory serves as the central location for all results, making it easy to retrieve annotated sequences and integrate them into downstream analyses such as comparative genomics, phylogenetics, or functional studies.


### Acknowledgment ###

If you use this repository or Prokka in your research, please cite the following publication:

Seemann, T. (2014). Prokka: rapid prokaryotic genome annotation. Bioinformatics, 30(14), 2068–2069. https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btu153

### Citation ### 
If you are using the protparam_analysis.py script for your research, please consider citing it as follows: Sharma, R. (2024).prokka.py. Retrieved from https://github.com/BioinfoRhythm/Prokka-Genome-annotation.git. 
